Cloud Tool docs (#1383)
griptape-ai/griptape: docs/griptape-cloud/tools/run-tool.md

# Running a Tool

> Once your Tool is created and deployed, you can run your Tool one of three ways outlined below. You may view the details of any of your runs, no matter how you created them, in the `Runs` tab of your Tool.

Reviewer: > no matter how you created them,

Feels unneeded.

Author: i copied that wording from the structures tab

## From the Cloud Console

Go to the `Test` tab of your Tool to open the generated OpenAPI spec. From there, the Swagger UI can be used to create test requests.

## From the API

> The API route for Tool activities is in the form of `https://cloud.griptape.ai/api/tools/{tool_id}/activities/{activity_name}`, where `tool_id` is the resource UUID of your created Tool, and `activity_name` is the name of the activity as defined in your `BaseTool` class. The activity routes will only accept an http POST method.

Reviewer: We reference the concept of "Activities" without explaining at all what they are.

Author: I am referencing the framework tool below, should that be pulled to the top?

Author: gave an example above

# Running a Tool

Tools are run by sending HTTP POST requests to the Tool's activity endpoints. Activities are defined by decorating your tool's methods with the `@activity` decorator. The activity name is the name of the method.

> For example, if you wanted to deploy Griptape's provided [`CalculatorTool`](../../griptape-tools/official-tools/calculator-tool.md), the endpoint for the `calculate` activity would be `https://cloud.griptape.ai/api/tools/{tool_id}/activities/calculate`, and the request body would be a JSON object with the key `expression` and the value as the expression to calculate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you deployed Griptape's provided [`CalculatorTool`](../../griptape-tools/official-tools/calculator-tool.md), the endpoint for the `calculate` activity would be `https://cloud.griptape.ai/api/tools/{tool_id}/activities/calculate`. The request body would be a JSON object with the key `expression` and the value as the expression to calculate.
```

```json
{
  "expression": "10**5"
}
```

Once your Tool is created and deployed, you can run your Tool one of three ways outlined below.

## From the Cloud Console

Go to the `Test` tab of your Tool to open the generated OpenAPI spec. From there, the Swagger UI can be used to create test requests.

## From the API

The API route for Tool activities is in the form of `https://cloud.griptape.ai/api/tools/{tool_id}/activities/{activity_name}`, where `tool_id` is the resource UUID of your created Tool, and `activity_name` is the name of the activity as defined in your `BaseTool` class. The activity routes will only accept an http POST method.

To fetch the OpenAPI schema, the route is `https://cloud.griptape.ai/api/tools/{tool_id}/openapi`.

```bash
export GT_CLOUD_API_KEY="<your API key here>"
export GT_CLOUD_TOOL_ID="<your tool ID here>"
export TOOL_ACTIVITY_URL="https://api.griptape.com/v1/tools/${GT_CLOUD_TOOL_ID}/activities/my_activity"

response=$(curl -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer ${GT_CLOUD_API_KEY}" --json '{"my_key": "my_value"}' ${TOOL_ACTIVITY_URL})
echo "my_activity response: ${response}"
```

## Using the Griptape Framework

> The Griptape framework provides a [`GriptapeCloudToolTool`](../../griptape-tools/official-tools/griptape-cloud-tool-tool.md) for interacting with your deployed Tools. Simply pass your Tool resource UUID as the `tool_id` kwarg, and the schema and activity methods will be dynamically set on the Tool.

Reviewer: > as the `tool_id` kwarg,

Link to reference docs pls
